walletconnect.md, before:

# WalletConnect Integration

## Terminology

| Term      | Explanation                                                                                             |
| :-------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| dApp      | A (web3) application that needs access to the Qubic Wallet.                                             |
| Session   | A connection between a dApp and the Qubic Wallet.                                                      |
| Method    | Functionality exposed by the Qubic Wallet that can be invoked by the dApp.                             |
| Event     | Information that the Qubic Wallet can push to a dApp without the dApp initiating a request.             |

## Session Establishment

A dApp initiates a connection to the WalletConnect servers, generating a connection URL. This URL contains information about the dApp and the required `methods` and `events` for the connection. The URL is then passed to the wallet (via QR code scanning or copy-paste). The wallet prompts the user to accept or reject the connection.

If the connection is rejected, the dApp receives the following response:
`{ code: 5000, message: 'User rejected.' }`

If accepted, the dApp receives a `SessionConnect` event containing information such as the *expiration time* (when the session expires) and *topic* (a unique ID). Once accepted, the connection is established as a session, which can remain active for a few hours to a few days.

## WalletConnect Mobile Linking

### How It Works

Mobile linking enables seamless communication between the Qubic Wallet and dApps using deep links, ensuring a smooth user experience with minimal interaction.

### Connection Flow

1.  **Dapp requests connection:** The dApp generates a WalletConnect URI and sends it using a deep link.

    -   Example:

        ```
        qubic-wallet://pairwc/wc:<session-id>@2?expiryTimestamp=<timestamp>&relay-protocol=irn&symKey=<key>
        ```

    -   Example with real values:

        ```
        qubic-wallet://pairwc/wc:bbea07131b87b98b819697298fbf0e02470f80c6aa31ff0da87f7f8e69daacea@2?expiryTimestamp=1738400769&relay-protocol=irn&symKey=79817979c7230496d451b3f46bd0be62fb698f78bd605a3cec49152a03533ba1
        ```

2.  **Wallet opens and prompts approval:** The user approves or rejects the connection.

3.  **User is redirected back:** If the dApp provides redirect links in the `SessionProposalEvent` metadata (`args?.params.proposer.metadata.redirect`), Qubic Wallet will automatically redirect the user after approval or rejection.

    -   The dApp should include at least one of the following:
        -   **Native deep link:** `metadata.redirect.native`
        -   **Universal link (fallback):** `metadata.redirect.universal`

### Custom Links in Qubic Wallet

Qubic Wallet deep links securely handle both connection requests and method callbacks.

*   **Custom URL Scheme:** Ensures only valid WalletConnect links are processed.
*   **Automatic Handling:** The app detects and processes WalletConnect links when opened.

## Exposed Methods

The dApp can optionally use deep links after sending a method request using `qubic-wallet://open` schema that will open the Qubic Wallet. After the user approves the request in the Qubic Wallet, and if the `redirectUrl` parameter is provided, the Qubic Wallet will redirect back to the dApp using the provided URL.

### qubic_requestAccounts

Requests all accounts in the wallet. This method provides the dApp with information about the accounts, including balances and associated assets.

**Method parameters:** *None*

On success, an array of `RequestAccountsResult` objects is received:

| Property | Type   | Description                                 |
| :------- | :----- | :------------------------------------------ |
| address  | String | The public ID of the account.               |
| name    | String | The name of the account in the wallet.      |
| amount   | Number | The number of Qubic in the wallet.          |
| assets   | Array | An array containing the assets associated with this account. Each element represents a single asset. |
| assets[index] | Object | An object containing the details of a specific asset. |
| assets[index].assetName | String | The name of the asset. |
| assets[index].issuerIdentity | String | The public ID of the issuer of the asset. |
| assets[index].ownedAmount | Number | The balance of the specified asset in the account.	|

### qubic_sendQubic

Asks the wallet to send Qubic to a specific address (upon user confirmation).

**Method parameters:**

| Param  | Type   | Description                             |
| :----- | :----- | :-------------------------------------- |
| from | String | The public ID of the source account.    |
| to   | String | The public ID of the destination account. |
| amount| Number | The number of Qubic to send. Must be positive. |
| redirectUrl | String (optional) | The deep or universal link for the dApp to redirect back |


On success, the following data is received:

| Property        | Type   | Value                         |
| :-------------- | :----- | :---------------------------- |
| transactionId | String | Transaction unique identifier. |
| tick          | Number | Tick the transfer is scheduled for. (Approval time + 5 ticks) |

On error, a standard `JsonRpcError` is received. See the `JSON-RPC errors` section for more details.

### qubic_signTransaction

Asks the wallet to sign a transaction. The transaction either transfers Qu or invokes a Smart Contract procedure. The returned `signedTransaction` value can be broadcasted to the network at a later time (e.g., using `https://rpc.qubic.org/v1/broadcast-transaction`).

**Method parameters:**

| Param       | Type     | Description                                                                                       |
| :---------- | :------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| from      | String   | The public ID of the source account.                                                              |
| to        | String   | The public ID of the destination account.                                                            |
| amount    | Number   | The number of Qubic to send. Must be 0 or positive.                                                 |
| tick     | Number  (optional)| If defined, indicates the tick for the transaction. Otherwise, it will be calculated as the tick at the moment of approval + 5 ticks.|
| inputType | Number (optional)  | Transaction input type. Default value is 0.                                                          |
| payload   | String (optional)  | Payload bytes in base64 format.                                                               |
| redirectUrl| String (optional)  | The deep or universal link for the dApp to redirect back  |

On success, the following data is received:

| Property          | Type   | Value                                     |
| :---------------- | :----- | :---------------------------------------- |
| signedTransaction| String | The signed transaction payload.            |
| transactionId   | String | Transaction unique identifier.           |
| tick            | Number | The tick that the transfer was signed for.|

On error, a standard `JsonRpcError` is received. See the `JSON-RPC errors` section for more details.

### qubic_sendTransaction

Asks the wallet to sign and broadcast a transaction. The transaction either transfers Qu or invokes a Smart Contract procedure. The parameters are the same as `qubic_signTransaction`.

**Method parameters:**

| Param       | Type     | Description                                                                                       |
| :---------- | :------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| from      | String   | The public ID of the source account.                                                              |
| to        | String   | The public ID of the destination account.                                                            |
| amount    | Number   | The number of Qubic to send. Must be 0 or positive.                                                 |
| tick     | Number (optional) | If defined, indicates the tick for the transaction. Otherwise, it will be calculated as the tick at the moment of approval + 5 ticks.|
| inputType | Number (optional)  | Transaction input type. Default value is 0.                                                          |
| payload   | String (optional) | Payload bytes in base64 format.                                                              |
| redirectUrl| String (optional)  | The deep or universal link for the dApp to redirect back  |


On success, the following data is received:

| Property        | Type   | Value                         |
| :-------------- | :----- | :---------------------------- |
| transactionId | String | Transaction unique identifier.|
| tick          | Number | The tick the transfer is scheduled for. |

On error, a standard `JsonRpcError` is received. See the `JSON-RPC errors` section for more details.

### qubic_sign

Asks the wallet to sign a message.

**Method parameters:**

| Param   | Type   | Description                                                                 |
| :------ | :----- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| from  | String | The public ID of the account to be used for signing the message.            |
| message| String | The message to be signed.                                                  |
| redirectUrl| String (optional)  | The deep or universal link for the dApp to redirect back                |

On success, the following data is received:

| Property    | Type   | Value                                                                                                     |
| :---------- | :----- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| signedData| String | The signed message. Before creating the signature, the string `'Qubic Signed Message:\n'` is prepended to the message. |
| digest    | String |                                                                                                            |
| signature | String |                                                                                                            |

On error, a standard `JsonRpcError` is received. See the `JSON-RPC errors` section for more details.

### qubic_sendAsset

Asks the wallet to transfer assets to a specific address (upon user confirmation).

**Method parameters:**

| Param       | Type   | Description                                     |
| :---------- | :----- | :---------------------------------------------- |
| from      | String | The public ID of the source account.            |
| to        | String | The public ID of the destination account.         |
| assetName | String | The name of the asset to transfer.              |
| issuer    | String | The public ID of the issuer of the token to transfer. |
| amount    | Number | The amount of tokens to send.                  |
| redirectUrl| String (optional)  | The deep or universal link for the dApp to redirect back  |

On success, the following data is received:

| Property        | Type   | Value                         |
| :-------------- | :----- | :---------------------------- |
| transactionId | String | Transaction unique identifier.|
| tick          | Number | The tick the transfer is scheduled for. |

On error, a standard `JsonRpcError` is received. See the `JSON-RPC errors` section for more details.

## Exposed Events

### accountsChanged

Fires when the accounts in the wallet are changed (added/renamed/deleted/wallet is launched).

**Payload:**

```json
[
  {
    "address": "ACDRUPXVDMRVDBVYHUEUTBNNIQOCRXLYSLEZZHHXYGQXITDFCEJB",
    "name": "QH",
    "amount": 17483927320
  },
  {
    "address": "ACDRUPXVDMRVDBVYHUEUTBNNIQOCRXLYSLEZZHHXYGQXITDFCEJBBUUBGJGM",
    "name": "QH2",
    "amount": 0
  }
]
```

| Field   | Type   | Description                                                   |
| :------ | :----- | :------------------------------------------------------------ |
| address| String | The public ID of the account.                                 |
| name  | String | The human-readable name of the wallet account.                |
| amount| Number | The number of Qubics in the account. (-1 if wallet does not have this information for the account)|

### amountChanged

Fires when the Qubic amount in one or more wallet accounts changes.

**Payload:**

```json
[
  {
    "address": "ACDRUPXVDMRVDBVYHUEUTBNNIQOCRXLYSLEZZHHXYGQXITDFCEJB",
    "name": "QH",
    "amount": 17483927320
  },
  {
    "address": "ACDRUPXVDMRVDBVYHUEUTBNNIQOCRXLYSLEZZHHXYGQXITDFCEJBBUUBGJGM",
    "name": "QH2",
    "amount": 0
  }
]
```

| Field   | Type   | Description                           |
| :------ | :----- | :------------------------------------ |
| address| String | The public ID of the account.         |
| name  | String | The human-readable name of the wallet account.|
| amount| Number | The number of Qubics in the account. |


### assetAmountChanged

Fires when the amount of a specific asset in one or more wallet accounts changes.

**Payload:**

```json
[
  {
    "address": "RBMXEFMDFABRTBJIYIBOQZMAWKWCPMJIQVEQDKONOFPEFWLMXQECDGEBIRBM",
    "name": "Account 1",
    "assets": [
      {
        "assetName": "CFB",
        "issuerIdentity": "CFBMEMZOIDEXQAUXYYSZIURADQLAPWPMNJXQSNVQZAHYVOPYUKKJBJUCTVJL",
        "ownedAmount": 1288696
      }
    ]
  },
  {
    "address": "NVGZSPIDZNQNYCLWBVFGCJPZODZBMUVHNYJGLFETXCMCNBVFEDOCSCNGOSSK",
    "name": "Account 2",
    "assets": []
  }
]
```

| Field   | Type   | Description                                                   |
| :------ | :----- | :------------------------------------------------------------ |
| address| String | The public ID of the account.                                 |
| name  | String | The human-readable name of the wallet account.                |
| assets   | Array | An array containing the assets that have changed for this account. Each element represents a single asset. |
| assets[index] | Object | An object containing the details of a specific asset. |
| assets[index].assetName | String | The name of the asset. |
| assets[index].issuerIdentity | String | The public ID of the issuer of the asset. |
| assets[index].ownedAmount | Number | The balance of the specified asset in the account.	|

## JSON-RPC errors

| Code | Message        | Meaning                      |
| :--- | :------------- | :--------------------------- |
| -32001 |  User is unavailable | The request comes while the user have another existing one. |
| -32002 | Tick expired | The tick the user sends became expired during the approval. |
| -32602 | Invalid argument(s) | The dApp didn't send valid parameters. |
| -32603 | Internal error | Unexpected internal error occurs. |
| 5000 | User rejected | The user rejected the request. |


```

Commit message:

docs: Add reference for wallet connect docs

walletconnect.md, after:

# WalletConnect Integration

## Terminology

| Term      | Explanation                                                                                             |
| :-------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| dApp      | A (web3) application that needs access to the Qubic Wallet.                                             |
| Session   | A connection between a dApp and the Qubic Wallet.                                                      |
| Method    | Functionality exposed by the Qubic Wallet that can be invoked by the dApp.                             |
| Event     | Information that the Qubic Wallet can push to a dApp without the dApp initiating a request.             |

## Session Establishment

A dApp initiates a connection to the WalletConnect servers, generating a connection URL. This URL contains information about the dApp and the required `methods` and `events` for the connection. The URL is then passed to the wallet (via QR code scanning or copy-paste). The wallet prompts the user to accept or reject the connection.

If the connection is rejected, the dApp receives the following response:
`{ code: 5000, message: 'User rejected.' }`

If accepted, the dApp receives a `SessionConnect` event containing information such as the *expiration time* (when the session expires) and *topic* (a unique ID). Once accepted, the connection is established as a session, which can remain active for a few hours to a few days.

## WalletConnect Mobile Linking

### How It Works

Mobile linking enables seamless communication between the Qubic Wallet and dApps using deep links, ensuring a smooth user experience with minimal interaction.

### Connection Flow

1.  **Dapp requests connection:** The dApp generates a WalletConnect URI and sends it using a deep link.

    -   Example:

        ```
        qubic-wallet://pairwc/wc:<session-id>@2?expiryTimestamp=<timestamp>&relay-protocol=irn&symKey=<key>
        ```

    -   Example with real values:

        ```
        qubic-wallet://pairwc/wc:bbea07131b87b98b819697298fbf0e02470f80c6aa31ff0da87f7f8e69daacea@2?expiryTimestamp=1738400769&relay-protocol=irn&symKey=79817979c7230496d451b3f46bd0be62fb698f78bd605a3cec49152a03533ba1
        ```

2.  **Wallet opens and prompts approval:** The user approves or rejects the connection.

3.  **User is redirected back:** If the dApp provides redirect links in the `SessionProposalEvent` metadata (`args?.params.proposer.metadata.redirect`), Qubic Wallet will automatically redirect the user after approval or rejection.

    -   The dApp should include at least one of the following:
        -   **Native deep link:** `metadata.redirect.native`
        -   **Universal link (fallback):** `metadata.redirect.universal`

### Custom Links in Qubic Wallet

Qubic Wallet deep links securely handle both connection requests and method callbacks.

*   **Custom URL Scheme:** Ensures only valid WalletConnect links are processed.
*   **Automatic Handling:** The app detects and processes WalletConnect links when opened.

## Exposed Methods

The dApp can optionally use deep links after sending a method request using `qubic-wallet://open` schema that will open the Qubic Wallet. After the user approves the request in the Qubic Wallet, and if the `redirectUrl` parameter is provided, the Qubic Wallet will redirect back to the dApp using the provided URL.

### qubic_requestAccounts

Requests all accounts in the wallet. This method provides the dApp with information about the accounts, including balances and associated assets.

**Method parameters:** *None*

On success, an array of `RequestAccountsResult` objects is received:

| Property | Type   | Description                                 |
| :------- | :----- | :------------------------------------------ |
| address  | String | The public ID of the account.               |
| name    | String | The name of the account in the wallet.      |
| amount   | Number | The number of Qubic in the wallet.          |
| assets   | Array | An array containing the assets associated with this account. Each element represents a single asset. |
| assets[index] | Object | An object containing the details of a specific asset. |
| assets[index].assetName | String | The name of the asset. |
| assets[index].issuerIdentity | String | The public ID of the issuer of the asset. |
| assets[index].ownedAmount | Number | The balance of the specified asset in the account.	|

### qubic_sendQubic

Asks the wallet to send Qubic to a specific address (upon user confirmation).

**Method parameters:**

| Param  | Type   | Description                             |
| :----- | :----- | :-------------------------------------- |
| from | String | The public ID of the source account.    |
| to   | String | The public ID of the destination account. |
| amount| Number | The number of Qubic to send. Must be positive. |
| redirectUrl | String (optional) | The deep or universal link for the dApp to redirect back |


On success, the following data is received:

| Property        | Type   | Value                         |
| :-------------- | :----- | :---------------------------- |
| transactionId | String | Transaction unique identifier. |
| tick          | Number | Tick the transfer is scheduled for. (Approval time + 5 ticks) |

On error, a standard `JsonRpcError` is received. See the `JSON-RPC errors` section for more details.

### qubic_signTransaction

Asks the wallet to sign a transaction. The transaction either transfers Qu or invokes a Smart Contract procedure. The returned `signedTransaction` value can be broadcasted to the network at a later time (e.g., using `https://rpc.qubic.org/v1/broadcast-transaction`).

**Method parameters:**

| Param       | Type     | Description                                                                                       |
| :---------- | :------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| from      | String   | The public ID of the source account.                                                              |
| to        | String   | The public ID of the destination account.                                                            |
| amount    | Number   | The number of Qubic to send. Must be 0 or positive.                                                 |
| tick     | Number  (optional)| If defined, indicates the tick for the transaction. Otherwise, it will be calculated as the tick at the moment of approval + 5 ticks.|
| inputType | Number (optional)  | Transaction input type. Default value is 0.                                                          |
| payload   | String (optional)  | Payload bytes in base64 format.                                                               |
| redirectUrl| String (optional)  | The deep or universal link for the dApp to redirect back  |

On success, the following data is received:

| Property          | Type   | Value                                     |
| :---------------- | :----- | :---------------------------------------- |
| signedTransaction| String | The signed transaction payload.            |
| transactionId   | String | Transaction unique identifier.           |
| tick            | Number | The tick that the transfer was signed for.|

On error, a standard `JsonRpcError` is received. See the `JSON-RPC errors` section for more details.

### qubic_sendTransaction

Asks the wallet to sign and broadcast a transaction. The transaction either transfers Qu or invokes a Smart Contract procedure. The parameters are the same as `qubic_signTransaction`.

**Method parameters:**

| Param       | Type     | Description                                                                                       |
| :---------- | :------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| from      | String   | The public ID of the source account.                                                              |
| to        | String   | The public ID of the destination account.                                                            |
| amount    | Number   | The number of Qubic to send. Must be 0 or positive.                                                 |
| tick     | Number (optional) | If defined, indicates the tick for the transaction. Otherwise, it will be calculated as the tick at the moment of approval + 5 ticks.|
| inputType | Number (optional)  | Transaction input type. Default value is 0.                                                          |
| payload   | String (optional) | Payload bytes in base64 format.                                                              |
| redirectUrl| String (optional)  | The deep or universal link for the dApp to redirect back  |


On success, the following data is received:

| Property        | Type   | Value                         |
| :-------------- | :----- | :---------------------------- |
| transactionId | String | Transaction unique identifier.|
| tick          | Number | The tick the transfer is scheduled for. |

On error, a standard `JsonRpcError` is received. See the `JSON-RPC errors` section for more details.

### qubic_sign

Asks the wallet to sign a message.

**Method parameters:**

| Param   | Type   | Description                                                                 |
| :------ | :----- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| from  | String | The public ID of the account to be used for signing the message.            |
| message| String | The message to be signed.                                                  |
| redirectUrl| String (optional)  | The deep or universal link for the dApp to redirect back                |

On success, the following data is received:

| Property    | Type   | Value                                                                                                     |
| :---------- | :----- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| signedData| String | The signed message. Before creating the signature, the string `'Qubic Signed Message:\n'` is prepended to the message. |
| digest    | String |                                                                                                            |
| signature | String |                                                                                                            |

On error, a standard `JsonRpcError` is received. See the `JSON-RPC errors` section for more details.

### qubic_sendAsset

Asks the wallet to transfer assets to a specific address (upon user confirmation).

**Method parameters:**

| Param       | Type   | Description                                     |
| :---------- | :----- | :---------------------------------------------- |
| from      | String | The public ID of the source account.            |
| to        | String | The public ID of the destination account.         |
| assetName | String | The name of the asset to transfer.              |
| issuer    | String | The public ID of the issuer of the token to transfer. |
| amount    | Number | The amount of tokens to send.                  |
| redirectUrl| String (optional)  | The deep or universal link for the dApp to redirect back  |

On success, the following data is received:

| Property        | Type   | Value                         |
| :-------------- | :----- | :---------------------------- |
| transactionId | String | Transaction unique identifier.|
| tick          | Number | The tick the transfer is scheduled for. |

On error, a standard `JsonRpcError` is received. See the `JSON-RPC errors` section for more details.

## Exposed Events

### accountsChanged

Fires when the accounts in the wallet are changed (added/renamed/deleted/wallet is launched).

**Payload:**

```json
[
  {
    "address": "ACDRUPXVDMRVDBVYHUEUTBNNIQOCRXLYSLEZZHHXYGQXITDFCEJB",
    "name": "QH",
    "amount": 17483927320
  },
  {
    "address": "ACDRUPXVDMRVDBVYHUEUTBNNIQOCRXLYSLEZZHHXYGQXITDFCEJBBUUBGJGM",
    "name": "QH2",
    "amount": 0
  }
]
```

| Field   | Type   | Description                                                   |
| :------ | :----- | :------------------------------------------------------------ |
| address| String | The public ID of the account.                                 |
| name  | String | The human-readable name of the wallet account.                |
| amount| Number | The number of Qubics in the account. (-1 if wallet does not have this information for the account)|

### amountChanged

Fires when the Qubic amount in one or more wallet accounts changes.

**Payload:**

```json
[
  {
    "address": "ACDRUPXVDMRVDBVYHUEUTBNNIQOCRXLYSLEZZHHXYGQXITDFCEJB",
    "name": "QH",
    "amount": 17483927320
  },
  {
    "address": "ACDRUPXVDMRVDBVYHUEUTBNNIQOCRXLYSLEZZHHXYGQXITDFCEJBBUUBGJGM",
    "name": "QH2",
    "amount": 0
  }
]
```

| Field   | Type   | Description                           |
| :------ | :----- | :------------------------------------ |
| address| String | The public ID of the account.         |
| name  | String | The human-readable name of the wallet account.|
| amount| Number | The number of Qubics in the account. |


### assetAmountChanged

Fires when the amount of a specific asset in one or more wallet accounts changes.

**Payload:**

```json
[
  {
    "address": "RBMXEFMDFABRTBJIYIBOQZMAWKWCPMJIQVEQDKONOFPEFWLMXQECDGEBIRBM",
    "name": "Account 1",
    "assets": [
      {
        "assetName": "CFB",
        "issuerIdentity": "CFBMEMZOIDEXQAUXYYSZIURADQLAPWPMNJXQSNVQZAHYVOPYUKKJBJUCTVJL",
        "ownedAmount": 1288696
      }
    ]
  },
  {
    "address": "NVGZSPIDZNQNYCLWBVFGCJPZODZBMUVHNYJGLFETXCMCNBVFEDOCSCNGOSSK",
    "name": "Account 2",
    "assets": []
  }
]
```

| Field   | Type   | Description                                                   |
| :------ | :----- | :------------------------------------------------------------ |
| address| String | The public ID of the account.                                 |
| name  | String | The human-readable name of the wallet account.                |
| assets   | Array | An array containing the assets that have changed for this account. Each element represents a single asset. |
| assets[index] | Object | An object containing the details of a specific asset. |
| assets[index].assetName | String | The name of the asset. |
| assets[index].issuerIdentity | String | The public ID of the issuer of the asset. |
| assets[index].ownedAmount | Number | The balance of the specified asset in the account.	|

## JSON-RPC errors

| Code | Message        | Meaning                      |
| :--- | :------------- | :--------------------------- |
| -32001 |  User is unavailable | The request comes while the user have another existing one. |
| -32002 | Tick expired | The tick the user sends became expired during the approval. |
| -32602 | Invalid argument(s) | The dApp didn't send valid parameters. |
| -32603 | Internal error | Unexpected internal error occurs. |
| 5000 | User rejected | The user rejected the request. |

## References

For more details on WalletConnect integration, please refer to the official [Documentation](https://docs.reown.com/).

```
